Date: Sat, 5 Sep 2026 17:26:01 +0200
From: Studenten Studentensson <studenten@kth.se>
To: Daniel Bosk <dbosk@kth.se>
Subject: Datintro "Who finished datintro first?" Exercise 9
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8

Dear Daniel,

I just got done making a bash script that I believe solves exercise 9 on in the
"Who finished datintro first?" document. The script is attached as first.sh.
The script takes one argument, the target file, and has 3 options available:

 1. -n INTEGER specifies the number of students you want to display (default
    100)
 2. -d INTEGER specifies the difference in time, exclusive and measured in
    seconds, between two students that is allowed for them to still get the
    same placement (default 0)
 3. -f forces the program to display a number of students equal to
    what specified in -n (or the default value), ignoring those who would tie
    for the last place.


There are some edge cases where the script wont work as intended. For example
if one student is done at 11:59:50 and one at 00:00:10 the following day then
the script won't give them the same placement even if you use "-d 30".
Additionally, since the difference in time is evaluated between the previously
viewed student and the current one, it is possible for a chain of students to
build that gives them all the same rank, even though they are not within the
specified number of seconds if you count from the first student in the chain.
Still, from my limited testing, I believe it does the job quite well in most
cases and I hope you will think so too.
Kind regards,
Studenten
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Observera att avsändaren inte är anställd vid Kungliga Tekniska högskolan. KTH
ansvarar inte för åsikter, påståenden eller personuppgifter som förmedlas i
detta meddelande.

Please note that the sender is not employed by KTH Royal Institute of
Technology. KTH is not responsible for the opinions, claims or personal data
conveyed in this message.



